# prediction-of-agriculture-crops-Production-in-india
Machines Learning(ML) is used in various field arounds all over the world . The Prediction of Agriculture Crop Production in India using Machine Learning Models Crop production plays a crucial role in the agricultural sector, impacting the economy and food security of a nation. Accurate prediction of crop production can aid policymakers, farmers, and other stakeholders in making informed decisions regarding resource allocation and planning. This report presents a study on the application of machines learnings(ml) models to Predicts Crops Yield Productions in India ,prediction of crop name for a particular region of the country, a country heavily reliant on agriculture.The objective of particular internship project was to develop and evaluate machines learnings model(Ml) capable of accurately predicting crop Yield production in India and predict crops name that are suitable and favorable for particular region of the country. To achieve this, historical data on crop production, state name, cultivation cost,production cost,crop varities and other relevant factors datasets were collected from Indian government website.Preprocessing techniques were applied to clean and transform the data into a suitable format for model training and testing.The implementation and comparisons of a different numbers of machine learnings(ml) algorithms, including linear Regression, Logistic Regression,support vector Machine(SVM), Decision trees, Random forests,Naive Bayes ,etc. The most pertinent variables for model training were chosen using feature engineering techniques, resulting in the best possible prediction performance. The models were tested using suitable metrics including mean absolute(ma)errors,rootmeansquared(rms)errors,Rsquared(R2),Precision,Recall,Accuracy,etc after being trained on a various attributes of the dataset.The findings of that study showed that crop yield production in India and crop name prediction may be accurately predicted by machine learning algorithms. The most accurate model had low error rates, high accuracy, and a great correlation with actual crop production values. Cross-validation techniques were used to further validate the models' prediction ability and gauge their resilience.Accurate crop yield production forecasts can help farmers choose the right crops, manage resources effectively, and manage risk. These forecasts can be used by policymakers to develop effective agricultural policies, address probable yield changes, and plan for food  security.
